# Divy-Bike-Sharing-Dataset-Analysis
 The main goal of our project is to learn, understand and implement some of the big data concepts and techniques taught in class. In order to achieve this, we found that using recently recorded data from a local Business ( Divvy Bike Sharing ) would provide us with great insights into handling a real world Business problem. Divvy provides people with an eco-friendly, fun and healthy option to commute through the city of Chicago. By conducting a series of exploratory data analyses, We can gain useful insights which may help answering some useful questions like : 1. When do they ride? To increase availability of bikes at Divvy stations at peak hours. 2. How far do they go? Longer bike rides leads to lesser availability of bikes at any given station. 3. Which stations are most popular? Finding out the most popularly visited Divvy bike stations around the city 4. What days of the week are most rides taken on? To optimize resource utility   DATA DESCRIPTION From the officially released data provided on the Divvy website :   • trip_id: ID attached to each trip taken • starttime: day and time trip started, in CST • stoptime: day and time trip ended, in CST • bikeid: ID attached to each bike • tripduration: time of trip in seconds • from_station_name: name of station where trip originated • to_station_name: name of station where trip terminated   • from_station_id: ID of station where trip originated • to_station_id: ID of station where trip terminated • gender: gender of rider • birthyear: birth year of rider • usertype: • Customer: rider who purchased a 24-Hour Pass • Subscriber: rider who purchased an Annual Membership Notes: • First row contains column names • Trips that did not include a start or end date were removed from original table. • Gender and birthday are only available for Subscribers   METHODOLOGY   1. Data Pre-Processing, Cleaning &amp; Data Wrangling   2. Feature Engineering   3. Visualization &amp; Analysis   4. Inference 5. Key Takeaways &amp; Suggestions  
